Now we've got a little bit
of camera movement and
that tends to make the game a lot
more dynamic and interesting.
And that will be really nice when
the lighting is responding to materials.
So as the camera moves around, we'll get
kind of a different material response as
the angle changes between the camera and
the lights.
So we're gonna assign some materials
to make this game look a lot better
than just a couple of gray cubes and
spheres.
But first, what is a material?
This isn't something that's
unique to Unity, this is true for
really any 3D applications.
But a material is in an asset
that combines both a shader and
a set of textures or other values
like colors, floating-point numbers,
to partially determine how
a 3D mesh should be rendered.
It could also be a 2D mesh, I suppose.
So a shader is a small program
that runs on the GPU, and
generally, it shades each pixel.
Although, a shader can also
modify the vertices of 3D meshes.
And that's how you get vertex
shaders that create all sorts of
cool interesting effects like
tessellation or adding more geometry or
kinda ocean waves, something like that,
that you might see on a 3D mesh.
Textures are 2D images that get
applied to the 3D surface of a model.
So you can kinda think about
it like wrapping a globe or
something with wallpaper.
And it's the shader that
helps determine how those
textures are actually
applied to the 3D model.
So, a material just combines
all of these elements.
It combines the shader, it combines the
textures, it combines all these certain
values into a more easily understandable
asset, such as a gold material, for
anything in the game that we want to
look like a gold, metallic surface.
So, we've got a little
bit more scene setup.
Up to this point,
we've had just the black background, but
it would be really nice to
have a plane on the ground.
So, let's do that.
That's really pretty
easy to do in this case.
We just want to go to 3D
objects in the hierarchy,
add a plane, that's it.
We can call this Ground if we want to.
And actually that's not it, we want this
to be at the origin, so let me reset that.
So the transform should be 0, 0, 0 for
position rotation, and 1, 1, 1 for scale.
So if we look at this in the scene view,
you can see that we've got our little game
board here, we've got the collectibles,
we've got the players, and
then we've got this large plane now.
And it makes things pretty
difficult to see, but
once we assign materials,
that will be a lot better.
So I have just included some materials for
us to work with.
And if I move this slider,
we can actually get a preview of
what those are going to look like.
So I wanna put this wood floor material.
I can get a little preview of that.
I wanna put this onto the ground plane.
So I can just drag that
from the project window,
drop it on to the ground
plane in the scene view.
And there it is,
now it's in the game view.
It's that easy to assign materials.
Just a little bit more about materials.
I have this one selected.
You can see that up here, like I said,
it's a combination of a shader and
textures or another values.
Here's the shader.
It's using a shader from
the universal render pipeline,
which is just a lit shader,
a lit shader meaning it is using lighting,
as opposed to a shader that is unlit,
not using lighting.
There's a couple of surface options,
we want this surface to use the metallic
physically based rendering workflow, which
basically gives us these options here.
It is an opaque surface as opposed to a,
say transparent or glass surface,
something like that.
And we want it to receive shadows,
we want it to be able to get
shadows from our lights.
And then we have a couple
of surface inputs, so
here are those textures
that I was describing.
If I click that, you can see that
here is that just base color texture
that looks a lot like that wood texture.
But there's other textures there too.
There's also a metallic smoothness map,
which maps out what parts of the surface
should be metallic, in this case, none.
And parts that should be a little
bit smoother or rougher, and
that's kind of a black and white map.
There's also a normal map,
a normal map creates
the appearance of kinda bumps or
divots, and that's how in this,
let's see if
I can tear this off here,
we get, well, maybe not.
But we get the appearance of there
being small little bumps and
imperfections in the wood grain there.
And that's coming from the normal map.
Normal maps look pretty weird.
Let me see if I can find one that's
maybe a little bit better of an example.
Not really, but
normal maps look pretty weird,
they do have basically each pixel value or
each RGB value representing
a vector that it should be
pushing that particular pixel in.
So it's pushing those
pixels in a direction or
an XYZ direction based on the RGB value.
And that's how you get those
little nice bumps in the shader.
So we've applied the wood floor,
the play surface,
we want to be this kinda like
black marble looking thing.
And you don't have to drag
things into the scene view.
If you want to be more specific,
you can actually select the game
object that you want to apply something
to and find it's mesh renderer component.
Here it's using just
a normal lit material.
This is the player.
I want the player to have this
metallic gold material, so
I can just drop that into this slot.
I want the opponent to have kind of this
bluish marble material, so we'll do that.
And then finally,
we want the collectible to have this kind
of special emissive quality to it, so
we'll drag that and put that here.
So right now, this will just appear pink,
it's not going to have
kind of that glowing surface quality
that I was showing previously,
but we'll get to how to add
that soon with post processing.
So if I hit the space bar and start,
now you can see that we have nicer
materials, the games looking a lot better.
There is more that we can do,
but adding materials to surfaces
really gives them a very
physical looking quality,
that we can push even further
with additional effects.
So that's kind of just a quick
introduction to materials.
Altering materials is a very deep topic,
altering shaders is perhaps
an even deeper topic than that.
But you can create shaders and
your own materials and
bring them into Unity and
create lots of really cool stuff.
These were just downloaded from
the Internet, under CC0 license,
and there's lots of great
resources out there for
all sorts of materials that
you can use in your games.